The President:
Next week, the Senate will
vote on the American Jobs Act.
It's a bill that will put more
people to work and put more
money in the pockets
of working Americans.
And it will provide our economy
with the jolt that it really
needs right now.
This is not the time for the
usual games or political
gridlock in Washington.
The challenges facing financial
markets around the world could
have very real effects on our
own economy at a time when it's
already fragile.
But this jobs bill can help
guard against another downturn
here in America.
This isn't just my belief --
it's what independent economists
have said -- not
just politicians,
not just people in
my administration --
independent experts who do this
for a living have said that this
jobs bill will have a
significant effect for our
economy and middle-class
families all across America.
But if we don't act, the
opposite will be true --
there will be fewer
jobs and weaker growth.
So any senator out there who's
thinking about voting against
this jobs bill needs to explain
why they would oppose something
that we know would improve
our economic situation.
If the Republicans in Congress
think they have a better plan
for creating jobs right
now, they should prove it.
Because one of the same
independent economists who
looked at our plan just
said that their ideas
"wouldn't mean much for the
economy in the near term."
If their plan
doesn't measure up,
the American people deserve to
know what it is that Republicans
in Congress don't like
about this jobs plan.
You hear a lot of our Republican
friends say that one of the most
important things we
can do is cut taxes.
Well, they should
love this plan.
The American Jobs Act would cut
taxes for virtually every worker
and small business in America.
And if you're a small business
owner that hires new workers,
raises wages or hires a veteran,
you get an additional tax cut.
Right now, hundreds of thousands
of teachers and firefighters and
police officers have been
laid off because of state
budget cuts.
This jobs bill will put a
lot of these men and women
back to work.
Right now, there are millions of
laid-off construction workers
who could be repairing
our bridges and roads,
and modernizing our schools.
Why wouldn't we want to put
these men and women to work
rebuilding America?
The proposals in this bill are
steps we have to take if we want
to build an economy that lasts;
if we want to be able to compete
with other countries for jobs
that restore a sense of security
for the middle class.
But we also have to rein in our
deficit and start living within
our means, which is why this
jobs bill is paid for by asking
millionaires and billionaires
to pay their fair share.
Some see this as class warfare.
I see it as a simple choice --
we can either keep taxes exactly
as they are for millionaires
and billionaires,
or we can ask them to pay at
least the same rate as a plumber
or a bus driver.
And in the process, we can
put teachers and construction
workers and veterans
back on the job.
We can either fight to protect
their tax cuts or we can cut
taxes for virtually every worker
and small business in America.
But we can't afford to do
both -- it's that simple.
There are too many people
hurting in this country for us
to simply do nothing.
The economy is too fragile for
us to let politics get in the
way of action.
The people who represent you in
Washington have a responsibility
to do what is best for you --
not what's best for their party
or what's going to help them win
an election that's more than a
year away.
So I need you to keep making
your voices heard in Washington.
I need you to remind these
folks who they work for.
And I need you to tell your
senators to do the right thing
by passing this jobs
bill right away.
Thanks so much.